---
title: The next chapter for Markdown
excerpt: Apiary is embracing the CommonMark Markdown syntax for API description.
layout: post
date: 2017-09-28 00:00:00 +0200
author: zdenek
published: true
---


Apiary has always stood for Markdown. We love the format for its simplicity and accessibility. We’ve built the incredibly popular API description language, API Blueprint on top of it. Markdown is in everything we do. From describing an API, doing a code review or writing this article. Markdown is our DNA.

As the original idea of Markdown evolved over the years we were happy to embrace the GitHub-flavored Markdown syntax to simplify the writing of an API description even more.

## Embracing CommonMark
Today is a milestone in Apiary’s Markdown history. We are completely moving to CommonMark. As of today CommonMark will be the standard format to be used in API descriptions throughout Apiary. This includes both API description formats we support: API Blueprint and Swagger 2.0.

Embracing CommonMark will help us to continue delivering the best tools for designing, documenting, prototyping and testing an API. But more importantly it gives you full control over your documentation through the power of a robust and well defined Markdown-based format. There will be no longer the syntax ambiguity the original Markdown was susceptible to. You will be always in control of how to format your description in order to get the result you want. If you haven’t check CommonMark already head over to [CommonMark tutorial](http://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/) to learn more.

## Strict Syntax
CommonMark strictly defines the Markdown syntax. This is especially important in the areas that were left ambiguous in the original Markdown syntax, such as list or link.

Because of migrating to a fully-defined and robust Markdown specification, there might be some side-effects on your existing Markdown documentation.

As the host of more than a quarter million API Documentation Projects, we cannot take this change lightly. While CommonMark is largely compatible with the original Markdown, there are subtle details that can produce different outputs that may confuse our users.

Fortunately we've been able to identify all documentations which are affected by this change. Unless you've received an email from us, there are no transition steps necessary for you. If your documentation is affected, you will receive an email from us detailing easy tools we've built to help you upgrade your existing Markdown to CommonMark.

If you want to learn more about the differences between the Markdown and CommonMark Head over to the [CommonMark article](https://help.apiary.io/faq/commonmark)on our help portal.

If you have any questions, concerns or feedback regarding this change, please do not hesitate to contact our support. We will be happy to assist you in building your APIs!
